.TH DW_CLIENT 1 "August 2025" "dw_client manual" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
dw_client \- distributed benchmarking client for distwalk node communication

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dw_client
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dw_client
is a flexible and extensible benchmarking client for testing and measuring performance against a
.B dw_node
server. It supports multiple connection modes, protocol types, request compositions, rate shaping, and fault-tolerant behaviors.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR --to "=[" \fIproto\fR: "[" // "]][" \fIhost\fR "][" :\fIport\fR "]"
Set the target node host (hostname or IP), port and protocol (one of \fBtcp\fR, \fBudp\fR or \fBssl\fR). All elements can be specified or not: \fIproto\fR defaults to \fBtcp\fR, \fIhost\fR defaults to \fBlocalhost\fR, and \fIport\fR defaults to \fB7891\fR.
Note: if the specified protocol is
.B ssl,
then the
.B --non-block
option is forced.

.TP
.BR -b,\ --bind-addr "=" \fIhost\fR "[" :\fIport\fR "]"
.TQ
.BR -b,\ --bind-addr "=" :\fIport\fR
Set explicitly the bind address or name, and the bind port, for the client.

.TP
.BR -n,\ \--num-pkts = \fIn\fR|\fIauto\fR
Set the number of requests sent by each thread (across all sessions). The special string \fBauto\fR can be used when the number of packets are implicitly defined, i.e., when generating inter-arrival times from a sequence, or reading them from a file.

.TP
.BR --ns,\ \--num-sessions = \fIn\fR
Set the number of sessions each client thread establishes with the (initial) distwalk node. The overall number of requests to be submitted, specified with
.B -n,
is evenly split across the various sessions. If this option is not used, each thread submits its overall number of requests within a single session.

.TP
.BR --pso,\ \--per-session-output
Let the client output the response times obtained for each session, at the end of the session, rather than at the end of the program. This implies some extra delay between sessions, but it requires the client to save on the needed memory.

.TP
.BR --ps = \fInbytes_spec\fR
Set the payload size of the sent requests, or their probability distribution (see below for details on how to specify distributions).

.TP
.BR --nt,\ \--num-threads = \fIn\fR
Set the number of client threads, corresponding to parallel sessions that are opened with the (initial) distwalk node, each submitting the overall number of requests as specified with
.B -n.
If this option is not used, only one thread will be submitting requests.

.TP
.BR -p,\ \--period = \fIusec_spec\fR
Set the inter-spacing period to be used by each sender thread, between submitting two consecutive requests.

.TP
.BR --rss,\ \--rate-step-secs = \fIsec\fR
Set the duration of each rate-step, in seconds.

.TP
.BR -r,\ \--rate = \fInpkt\fR
Set the packet sending rate (in pkts per sec).

.TP
.BR --stag-send
Enable staggered send among sender threads. This allows to avoid stressing the server with all requests hitting it at the same time.

.TP
.BR --conn-times
Add also the
.B connect()
times to the final report output by the client.

.TP
.BR --nd\ \--no-delay = 0 | 1
Enable or disable the
.B TCP_NODELAY
socket option (default is enabled).

.TP
.BR --non-block
Tell each client thread to perform a busy-wait loop instead of blocking, while waiting for a connection to be established.  
This is done by setting the socket in
.B SOCK_NONBLOCK
mode.

.TP
.BR --ws,\ \--wait-spin
Tell each client thread to perform a busy-wait loop instead of blocking, while waiting till the point in time in which the next request is to be sent.

.TP
.BR -C,\ \--comp-time = \fIusec_spec\fR
Add to the sequence of operations submitted per-request to the server a
.B COMPUTE
operation, with the specified processing time or processing time distribution (see specifying distributions below). The way this is implemented on the node side may or may not be affected by CPU frequency switches; see the
.B --loops-per-usec
option of
.B dw_node
for details.

.TP
.BR -L,\ \--load-data "=\fInbytes_spec\fR"
.TQ
.BR -L,\ \--load-data "=[\fBoffset=[\fR\fInbytes_spec\fR\fB]\fR,]\fBsize=[\fR\fInbytes_spec\fR\fB]\fR"
Add a
.B LOAD
operation to the submitted per-request operations list, with the given data payload size specification, in bytes, and optionally the given offset specification (see below for details on how to specify distributions). If the offset is not given, then the latest default set with the
.B --load-offset
option is applied.

.TP
.BR --load-offset = \fInbytes_spec\fR
Set the offset to be used, or the distribution it has to be drawn from, for the subsequent
.B LOAD
operations.

.TP
.BR -S,\ \--store-data = \fInbytes_spec\fR
.TQ
.BR -S,\ \--store-data "=[[no]sync,]\fBsize=[\fR\fInbytes_spec\fR\fB]\fR"
Add to the per-request operations list to be submitted a
.B STORE
operation, with the given payload size specification, in bytes, and optionally the given offset specification (see below for details on how to specify distributions). If the offset is not given, then the latest default set with the
.B --store-offset
option is applied.

.TP
.BR --store-offset = \fInbytes_spec\fR
Set the offset value, or its distribution, for the subsequent
.B STORE
operations.

.TP
.BR -F,\ \--forward "=\fIip\fR:\fIport\fR[,\fIip2\fR:\fIport2\fR,...][,timeout=\fIusec\fR][,retry=\fIn\fR][,branch][,nack=\fIn\fR]"
Add a
.B FORWARD
operation to the submitted per-request operations list, specifying the ip:port to forward to, the timeout to wait for, and the number of retries in case of failure to receive the
.B REPLY
to the
.B FORWARD.
The host and port specification have defaults similarly to the \fB--to\fR option.
This option allows also to specify multiple ip:port receivers. In this case, the
.B FORWARD
is performed in parallel to all the specified receivers, and by default all of their
.B REPLY
responses are needed before moving on with processing the rest of the operations list.

However, the
.B nack=n
option allows for customizing the number of acknowledgements to wait for, before moving on. For example, it is possible to FORWARD to 3 different nodes, and wait for just 1 or 2 of their
.B REPLY
responses, to move on. This is useful to emulate the typical behavior of distributed quorum-based protocols.

Normally, when multiple ip:port are specified, the FORWARD messages are sent identical to all the peers, and are extracted starting from the operation following the FORWARD, to the matching
.B REPLY.
However, if the
.B branch
option is used, then different messages can be forwarded to the different peers, and they have to be specified each as a FORWARD operation matching its own REPLY. For example:

.B dw_client -F ip1:p1,branch -C 10ms -R -F ip2:p2,branch -C 20ms -R

.TP
.BR -R,\ \--rs [ = \fInbytes_spec\fR ]
Add to the list of per-request operations to be submitted a
.B REPLY
command, optionally specifying the payload size, in bytes (see below for details on how to specify distributions).

.TP
.BR --retry-num = \fIn\fR
Set the number of connection retries by the client to the (initial) node in case of failure. If unused, defaults to 0. When the maximum number of retries is reached with still
.B connect()
failure, the whole session is considered aborted, but the next session will start to connect() if there is more than 1 session configured (see
.B --ns).

.TP
.BR --retry-period = \fImsec\fR
Set the interval between subsequent connection retries, in milliseconds.

.TP
.BR -s,\ \--skip = \fIn\fR [,prob=\fIval\fR][,every=\fIm\fR]
Skip the next
.I n
commands with probability val (defaults to 1.0 if unspecified), every m requests (defaults to 1 if unspecified).

.TP
.BR -f,\ \--script-filename = \fIfile\fR
Read the sequence of commands to be submitted per-request operations list, as well as other
.B dw_client
options, from the specified script file, as though its contents were added to the command-line in the point where this option is used. This can be intermixed with other regular command-line options.


.SS Parameter Specification
.PP
The parameters in the
.B dw_client
command-line syntax denoted with the
.I _spec
suffix can be specified as either constant values, samples to be drawn from a probability distribution, values generated from a deterministic sequence, or values read from a CSV file. The tool has a versatile syntax allowing for a wide range of specifications:
.PP
.B Constant Values
.PP
Just use a number, optionally with
.B k
or
.B m
suffixes to shorten thousands and millions, respectively. For time quantities, the default unit is microseconds. Suffixes
.B ns,
.B us,
.B ms
or
.B s
allow for more readable time formats.
.PP
For example, 1500 requests can be specified as:
.nf
  -n 1500
  -n 1.5k
.fi
.PP
A
.B COMPUTE
operation with processing time of 10ms (= 10000us) can be specified as:
.nf
  -C 10000
  -C 10000us
  -C 10ms
  -C 0.01s
.fi

.PP
.B Probability Distributions
.PP
The generic syntax is:
.B prob:\fIavg-val\fR[,param=\fIvalue\fR[,...]]
.PP
Supported formats include:
.PP
.BR unif ":min=\fIa\fR, max=\fIb\fR"
.RS
Samples are drawn from a uniform distribution between
.B a
and
.B b.
.PP
Example:
.nf
  -p unif:min=10ms,max=20ms
.fi
.RE
.PP
.BR exp ":\fIavg-val\fR[,min=\fIa\fR][,max=\fIb\fR]"
.RS
Samples are drawn from an exponential distribution with the specified average. Optional
.B min=
and
.B max=
truncate the distribution.
.RE
.PP
.BR norm ":\fIavg-val\fR,std=\fIstd-val\fR[,min=\fIa\fR][,max=\fIb\fR]"
.RS
Samples are drawn from a Gaussian distribution with the specified average and standard deviation. Optional
.B min=
and
.B max=
truncate the distribution.
.RE
.PP
.BR lognorm ":\fIavg-val\fR,std=\fIstd-val\fR[,min=\fIa\fR][,max=\fIb\fR]"
.TQ
.BR lognorm ":xval=\fIavg-xval\fR,xstd=\fIavg-xstd\fR[,min=\fIa\fR][,max=\fIb\fR]"
.RS
Samples are drawn from a LogNormal distribution. You may specify parameters of the supporting Gaussian distribution using
.B xval
and
.B xstd.
Truncation with
.B min=
and
.B max=
is also supported.
.RE
.PP
.BR gamma ":\fIavg-val\fR,std=\fIstd-val\fR[,min=\fIa\fR][,max=\fIb\fR]"
.TQ
.BR gamma ":k=\fIk-val\fR,scale=\fIs-val\fR[,min=\fIa\fR][,max=\fIb\fR]"
.RS
Samples are drawn from a Gamma distribution using either average and standard deviation, or using
.B k
and
.B scale
parameters. Truncation via
.B min=
and
.B max=
is also supported.
.RE

.PP
.B Arithmetic or Geometric Sequences
.PP
.BR aseq ":min=\fIa\fR,max=\fIb\fR[,step=\fIs-val\fR]"
.RS
Samples are picked from an arithmetic progression starting at
.B a
and increasing by 1 or the specified step
.B s-val
until reaching
.B b.
Negative steps allow ramp-down patterns.
.PP
Example:
.nf
  -r seq:min=100,max=1000,step=10
.fi
.RE
.PP
.BR gseq ":min=\fIa\fR,max=\fIb\fR[,step=\fIs-val\fR]"
.RS
Samples are picked from a geometric progression starting at
.B a
and multiplying by the specified step
.B s-val
each time (defaults to 2), up to
.B b.
The step may be less than 1 for decreasing sequences.
.RE

.PP
.B CSV Files
.PP
.BR file ":file[,sep=\fIsep-char\fR][,col=\fIcol-val\fR][,unit=\fIunit\fR]"
.RS
Samples are read from a specified column (default is the first) of a CSV file. The column separator defaults to a comma. The
.B unit
parameter can be used to scale values.
.PP
Example:
.nf
  -C file:data.csv,col=2,unit=ms
  -p file:data.csv,col=4,unit=ms
.fi
.RE


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dw_node (1)

.SH BUGS
For bug reports, use the issue tracker at https://github.com/tomcucinotta/distwalk/issues.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025. All rights reserved.
